# Welcome to My Page

## List of Softwares Developed by Me
Below is a list of softwares that I have developed. They are either used in my project works under various professors or was solely done by me due to my own interest on that topic. Please feel free to contact me if you found any bug or problem existing in the repositories listed below. Each of the repositories are explained in more **details** in a seperate page whose Link are given below each of them respectively.

### tacs

The Toolkit for the Analysis of Composite Structures (TACS) is a parallel finite-element code for analysis and gradient-based design of advanced structures. Originally, TACS was primarily designed as a tool for the analysis of shell structures, such as wing-boxes. More recently it has been extended to perform topology optimization of large three-dimensional structures using gradient-based methods. It is a parallel finite element framework for high-fidelity structural dynamic analysis and gradient evaluation using the discrete adjoint method is presented. The framework is intended to be used for gradient-based design optimization of flexible multibody dynamic systems such as rotorcraft. The formulation of governing equations, the treatment of kinematic constraints, and the evaluation of functionals of interest and their derivatives are addressed. A minimal set of routines needed to implement the discrete adjoint method is proposed. The governing equations are integrated in time using a diagonally implicit Runge–Kutta method for second-order systems of equations. The formulation of the corresponding time-dependent discrete adjoint equations are presented and are numerically verified using the complex-step method. 

### rough_surfaces

A Python3 module for the analysis, elastic contact and fluid flow simulation of rock fractures. Thermo‐hydro‐mechanical‐chemical simulations at the pore scale are conducted to study the hydraulic sealing of siliciclastic rock fractures as contact zones grow driven by pressure dissolution. The evolving fluid‐saturated three‐dimensional pore space of the fracture results from the elastic contact between self‐affine, randomly rough surfaces in response to the effective confining pressure. A diffusion‐reaction equation controls pressure solution over contact zones as a function of their emergent geometry and stress variations. Results show that three coupled processes govern the evolution of the fracture's hydraulic properties: (1) the dissolution‐driven convergence of the opposing fracture walls acts to compact the pore space; (2) the growth of contact zones reduces the elastic compression of the pore space; and (3) the growth of contact zones leads to flow channeling and the presence of stagnant zones in the flow field. The dominant early time compaction mechanism is the elastic compression of the fracture void space, but this eventually becomes overshadowed by the irreversible process of pressure dissolution. Growing contact zones isolate void space and cause an increasing disproportion between average and hydraulic aperture. This results in the loss of hydraulic conductivity when the mean aperture is a third of its initial value and the contact ratio approaches the characteristic value of one half. Convergence rates depend on small‐wavelength roughness initially and on long‐wavelength roughness in the late time. The assumption of a characteristic roughness length scale, therefore, leads to a characteristic time scale with an underestimation of dissolution rates before and an overestimation thereafter.
